# LCADNet: a novel light CNN architecture for EEG-based Alzheimer disease detection
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) is a progressive and incurable neurologi-cal disorder with a rising mortality rate, worsened by error-prone, time-intensive, and expensive clinical diagnosis methods. Automatic AD detection methods using hand-crafted Electroencephalogram (EEG) signal features lack accuracy and reliability. A lightweight convolution neural network for AD detection (LCADNet) is investigated to extract disease-specific features while reducing the detection time. The LCADNet uses two convolutional layers for extracting complex EEG features, two fully connected layers for selecting disease-specific features, and a softmax layer for predicting AD detection probability. A max-pooling layer interlaced between convolutional layers decreases the time-domain redundancy in the EEG signal. The efficiency of the LCADNet and four pre-trained models using transfer learning is compared using a publicly available AD detection dataset. The LCADNet shows the lowest computation complexity in terms of both the number of floating point operations and inference time and the highest classification performance across six measures. The generalization of the LCADNet is assessed by cross-testing it with two other publicly available AD detection datasets. It outperforms existing EEG-based AD detection methods with an accuracy of 98.50%. The LCADNet may be a valuable aid for neurologists and its Python implemen- tation can be found at github.com/SandeepSangle12/LCADNet.git.

Kachare, P., Puri, D., Sangle, S.B. et al. LCADNet: a novel light CNN architecture for EEG-based Alzheimer disease detection. Phys Eng Sci Med (2024). https://doi.org/10.1007/s13246-024-01425-w
